A strong and committed Finland – the Government’s vision
The Government is seeking to make Finland a strong and committed country that can withstand global storms.
In a strong and committed Finland, people will have the opportunity to increase their knowledge and competence, find work, live on their pay or pension, and live in safety. When the foundations of society are strong, people can enjoy the right and freedom to pursue a good life on their own terms. People can feel included in society and can trust one another. The most vulnerable people can trust that they will be taken care of. It is the responsibility of government to provide a framework for freedom and opportunity.
A strong and committed Finland will be able to provide services to people of all ages regardless of their income or where they live. These services extend from early childhood onwards, covering education, health, social services, and care. We will guarantee that future generations will be able to enjoy similar services and opportunities. People will take responsibility for themselves and for each other in families, communities and in society at large. We will support parenthood and families with children and will take care of older people.
Every child and young person will have the opportunity to build a good life and pursue their dreams. We will invest in early childhood education and care and comprehensive school to create an educational path for everyone. We will encourage people of all ages to live a physically active life, which will improve the health and wellbeing of the nation. We will make Finland a global leader through historically large investments in research, development and innovation. Finland will be a technological frontrunner. We will make full use of the opportunities provided by digitalisation and artificial intelligence while making sure people keep pace with technological change.
A sustainable economy is the foundation for prosperity. The most important goal of the Government’s economic policy will be to achieve sustainable growth. The Government will close the gap between general government revenue and expenditure and will reverse the trajectory of Finland’s debt burden. In a strong and committed Finland, work and entrepreneurship will be rewarding and profitable. Finland will attract both domestic and foreign investors. In Finland, you can try, fail and try again until you succeed. The Government will safeguard people’s purchasing power and make sure that everyday costs remain reasonable.
An economically strong Finland will also be resilient. A strong and committed Finland is an open and international country. Finland will work with other countries and peoples in communities dedicated to European and western values and security. We will be active and take the initiative in NATO, the European Union, the United Nations and in other international contexts. Close Nordic cooperation will be particularly important. Our strong defence capability will contribute to the stability of the entire Nordic region.
The energy transition and clean technologies will offer Finland opportunities to create jobs, exports, economic growth and prosperity. Finland will punch above its weight in climate policy. We value clean nature in Finland. We will combat biodiversity loss. We will make sure that clean and affordable energy is available.
A strong and committed Finland is a stable and reliable country. It is a strong democracy and an independent state governed by the rule of law. Everyone in Finland is valued as an equal member of society. Bilingualism is one of our country’s strengths.
A strong and committed Finland will ensure the safety of its people at home, on the streets and at its borders. We will combat social exclusion, make sure the police have sufficient resources and hone the functioning of our justice system. We will safeguard security of supply and the production of clean and safe Finnish food.
Provided we take care of the whole country, we as a nation and people will succeed. In a strong and committed Finland, people can count on things turning out well. That is how we will know that the Finnish welfare state is doing its job. Everyone will be able to live life on their own terms while respecting one another.
We will build a strong and committed Finland through concrete and forthright solutions. Action builds faith in the future. By working together, Finland can rise to meet any challenge.